---
title: Projects
lang: en
ref: project-2
img: /assets/img/projekt_2.jpg
description: TÁMOP-5.3.6-11/1-2012-0040
---

1.  **Project: Complex settlement programme in the segregated parts of Tamási, Kosba and Újvárhegy**

**Project ID: TÀMOP-5.3.6-11/1-2012-0040**

**Budget: 54.952.152 HUF**

**Project description:** The aim of the project was to work up an intervention plan for the improvement of the social, integrational, educational and medical conditions of the inhabitants of Kosba and Újvárhegy. Main issues were to find solutions for problems deriving from multiple handicaps affecting lives through generations and to establish a community cooperation focussing on self and community development.

The complex intervention plan includes social, community developmental, educational and employment areas. The multi-faceted project was realised by a four membered consortium: The Municipality of Tamási, the Roma local government of Tamási, Human Innovation Group Ltd, and the István Türr Training and Research Centre.

The central professional part of the programme was on the one hand the establishment of Csillagház (Star house) service house located in the Community Centre, on the other hand the establishment of Csillag (Star) service point that will be located in the newly renovated Roma Community Centre. The service house is the location of the integrational programmes, the service point provides the missing hygienic services, and also the social, children protective, community developing, educational, medical and adult educational services. The core professional work of the project was the development of the professional programme of the settlement type service house and service point as well as the settlement type individual case management; and social work based on the individual development plan that helps the whole family to fight all the disadvantages through the participant.

60 (3-45 yrs) disadvantaged people joined the programme under the mentorship of 4 social workers. The service point accommodates the professional and management staff, the interview and group room and all the other service elements of the project.

We employed four community event organizers, who live in the settlement and are accepted and well-received members of the community.

**Community and integration events in the service house:**

1\. Tolerance Soccer Cup, which was held in two following years

2\. Traditional cooking competitions: Kettle and the Venison-cooking Masters- competitions beloved by the community of Tamási.

The inhabitants of the segregates can´t afford to participate in these events, so the project plans to provide resources for the Rácvölgy community as well. We also introduced a new element, namely the Kettle Master of Roma Flavors that we plan to develop to be a city event.

The target group participates in organizing dance houses.

The winner of the “Art from Waste” city contest has the chance to go on a family trip. The works of the participants will be shown at an exhibition. The project also focusses on environmental protection.

Additional parts of the project: pilgrimage, variety of events connected to Christian holidays, religious courses, community environmental protection events, children's dance group, children and folk games, courses about folk traditions for community and social workers, house of crafts - a thematic event series. 

**Adult education and employability supporting elements:**

Accredited stone masonry course, school tutoring, learning methods training (18 hrs/ 3 days- 2 groups), accredited labour market training (5 days- 8 groups), kitchen help training (12 people), family day-care leader training (12 people) , IT course (60 hrs, 12 people, 2 groups)

**Education:** individual development and lessons in small groups for schoolchildren lead by teachers and a developmental teacher, music kindergarten and school trips, health care services: lectures by specialists, promotion of screenings, ob-gyn lectures, lifestyle camps (5 day-4 nights, full board, 20 children, 5 adults), psychological counselling, dietetic counselling, preventive group sessions (smoking, alcohol consume), thematic group sessions in the house of Praktika.

**Further information:**

**Project duration:** 01 07 2013 – 06 30 2015

**Main applicant:**

Tamási Municipality

**Consortium partners:**

Tamási Roma Local Government

Türr István Training and research Centre

Human Innovation Group Non-profit Ltd.

**2\. Project: The Adaptation of the Transit Labour Market Model, Implementation of Transit Labour Market Development, Consultation Information in the Regions of Szigetvár and Slatina**

**Project ID:** HUHR/1001/2.1.2/0004

**Budget:** 44.470 EUR

**Project description:**

The organization accomplished the programme within the Hungary- Croatia Cross border Cooperation programme under the name of The Adaptation of Transit Labour Market Model, Implementation of Transit Labour Market Development, Consultation Information in the Regions of Szigetvár and Slatina.

**Location:** Szigetvári region, Slatina, Virovitica and neighbourhood

The goal of the project was to share and teach the well-working employability developing Transit programme. This programme is a complex labour market reintegration programme, where the disadvantaged participants parallel to developing their key competencies and learning a profession have the chance to practice their future profession at existing companies that in case of success would employ them further on. The practical course is led by an experienced tutor, the master. Meanwhile the participants get psychosocial support, key competence development training, wages and travel support.

The Hungarian party gave over the necessary documents, the way of executing the programme and prepared the professionals, all adjusted to the Croatian needs. The Hungarian and the Croatian professionals were constantly in touch during the execution of the programme. Bilingual books and teaching materials were written for some of the courses.

The detailed brochure of the project is available under “Downloads”.

**Further information:**

**Project duration:** 01 07 2011 – 30 06 2012

**The organization was a main beneficiary in this project in cooperation with the following organizations:**

Culture and Green Zone Association of Szigetvár

VIDRA - Agencija za regionalni razvoj VirovitiÄko-podravske Zupanije

Grad Slatina

**3\. Project: Road signs**

**Project ID:** ROM-TP-09-A-001

**Budget:** 0 Ft

**Project description:**

Project “Road signs” was launched by Somogyhatvan Municipality as main applicant, and Human Innovation Non-profit Group Ltd. as consortium partner. The location of the project was Somogyhatvan, and the supporting organization was the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice. Our professional contribution to the project was:

Career orientation training, job search training

Individual labour market and career counselling

IT basic course

Masonry-Accredited training

Organizing community programmes

**Further information:**

**Project duration:** 01\. 06\. 2010- 30.05.2011

**Applicant: Somogyhatvan Municipality**

**Consortium partners:**

Human Innovation Non-profit Group Ltd.

**4\. Project: Psychological disability and the world of work project**

**Project ID:** IPA HUHR/1101/2.1.2/0003

**Budget:** 35.267.550 Ft

**Project description:**

The project focusses on a serious issue, namely the employment rehabilitation of psychologically disabled people in the cross-border region of Hungary and Croatia. The project provides in-depth analysis and possible solutions to the problem. It analyses and discusses the situation of the labour market in Barany County and Eszek- Baranya County. Analysis of the situation, focus group studies, expert interviews and background researches were to show direction, provide a way and a solution for psychologically disabled people, who want to re-enter the labour market.

**Further information:**

**Project duration:** 01 10 2013 – 31 12 2014

**Applicants:**

Faculty of Human Resource and Adult Education of the University of Pécs

Dom Zdravlja Osijek

**Consortium Partner:** Human Innovation Non-profit Group Ltd.

**5\. Project: Defining the potential lying within the Human Innovation Group Ltd and the development of the organization´s labour market**

**Project ID**: TÁMOP-2.6.2-12/1-2012-0317

**Budget:** 7.990.480 HUF

**Project description:**

The New Szecheny Plan builds on the tools of the development of human resources, so it is important how successful the labour market services are within the programme. With the help of these tools, the labour market services can provide the enterprises with educated and employable workforce. According to the Society Renewal Operative Programme, the role taking of the civil organizations in the provision of state financed services can provide a better quality and higher availability; can also satisfy the growing need and the bigger variety of necessary services, especially in case of regions and social groups, where the state organizations and institutions cannot provide adequate services. So it is necessary to strengthen the civil organizations, give them access to resources and help them develop their professional and institutional capacity, support the development of the organizational culture and innovativeness, especially in disadvantaged regions. As a result of the development, the civil organizations will have a greater chance to join the system of labour market services provided by the National Employment Service. The preparation for the application of the standard quality management system provides equally high quality labour market services for job searching people in whole Hungary. The aim of this programme is:

*   To develop the competences of the employees of the labour market services providing organizations
*   To develop the culture of the organizations, to ensure that their operation is transparent and the quality and effectiveness of their services meet the given standards
*   To set up a common quality standard, along which the organizations can provide their services

**6\. Project: Increasing the capacity of the Human Innovation Group Non-profit Ltd.**

**Project ID:** TÁMOP-1.4.1-12/1-2013-0123

**Budget:** 29.968.319\. HUF

The project numbered TÁMOP 1.4.1-12/1-2013-0123 of Human Innovation Group Ltd. has begun on 2nd February 2014\. The projects name is "Increasing the capacity of the Human Innovation Group Non-profit Ltd".

The project is coordinated by the project manager, who carries out his tasks according to the project guidelines and the general regulations of the enterprise. In the same manner, the financial leader is responsible for the financial part of the project in harmony with his contract and the project guidelines.
The beneficiary has also employed a mentor since February 2014\. The mentor participated in the target group member selection, and afterward provided psychosocial support to the members of the target group to integrate and accomplish the work well in the new environment.

The initial selection and the final choices were made in February 2014\. According to the tender the beneficiary involved 7 freshly graduated participants in the project. 5 of them had a university degree, 2 graduated from secondary school. 

The chosen group participated in a complex programme, the Labour market and Community developing training, which was a 90 hour long accredited training between the 3<sup>rd</sup> and 18<sup>th</sup> March 2014\. The training focussed on key competence development and increasing the awareness of the participants of the labour market. The next course was an IT training, also a 90 hours long that took place between the 18<sup>th</sup> March – 02<sup>nd</sup> April. The last training was the OSH (occupational safety and health) training in April. 

The 7 participants have been employed by the Human Innovation Group Non-profit Ltd. since the 3<sup>rd</sup> April 2014\. All of them work 8 hours a day and according to their contracts and job descriptions.

The tool purchase took place in February 2015, during which 7 laptops and the necessary 7 Microsoft Office softwares were procured according to the description in the tender.

**7\. Project: Tourist promotion of the Zrinski family thematic routes in the cross-border region**

**Short title:** Routes of the Zrinskis

**Project ID:** HUHR/1101/1.2.3/0013

**Main beneficiary:** Circle of Friends of the Castle of Szigetvár

**Project partners:** Muzej Međimurje Čakovec

Human Innovation Group Non-profit Ltd.

**Project duration:** 16 months (01 04 2014 – 31 07 2015)

**Budget:** 449 015 EUR

**Community support:** 371 253,65 EUR

**Project description:**

The project is based on the many years of cooperation between Csáktornya and Szigetvár. Our aim was to create a thematic route that reveals and presents the common history of these two places and the Zrinski family to the public using the most up to date technology. The aim of the participants of the project was to reveal, present and protect the cultural heritage, in order to reach this, it was important to create a product package that experientially and thoroughly shows the touristic sites on both sides of the border.

The participants set up info points in Szigetvár and Csáktornya. They also develop tourist guiding software that are downloadable to smartphones or Mp4 payers, digital maps, 3D models and kiosk software, they also set up kiosk configurations for the tourists. They renovate the Zrinski Residence in Csáktornya and the first floor of the Barn in Szigetvár. The latter is an exhibition about the history of the local Bosnian minority with interactive and digital content. They map and set up the thematic routes with six stations in Szigetvár and 17 in Medimurje, where all stops will be equipped with trilingual info boards. The Hungarian partner revives the traditional Musola Games; the Croatian partner organizes a Zrinski ball during the project. Region Szigetvár was not long in the Zrinski family´s possession, so there are not many significant relics outside the city, but the region of Medimurje is rich in the cultural and architectural heritage of the Zrinski family, so the following settlements are included in the thematic route: Čakovec, Nedelišče, Gornji Kuršanec, Vularija, Prelog, Donji Vidovec, Donji Dubrava, Kotoriba, Goričan, Domašinec, Podturen, Novakovec, Mursko Središče, Lapšina, Štrigova, Sveti Juraj na Bregu, Šenkovec. The museum sets up 34 road signs and 17 info boards along the thematic route in Medimurje. The Circle of Friends of the Castle sets up 3 road signs and 6 info boards. They also organize promoting events, such as the Musola Games in Szigetvár and the Zrinski ball in Csáktornya. The museum makes research how to make the collection of the exhibition and the installation up-to-date to sustain the results of the project.

**8\. Project: Mapping out the necessary intervention plan for the Roma inhabitants of Paks.**

**Client: Paks Municipality**

**Project:**

*   Collection and synchronization of data about the inhabitants of social institutions and social rental homes from the partner organizations (e.g.: Government Office, schools, kindergartens, police, civil defence, child protection organizations, health care and other charity organizations; and the process of all available data at the public data banks (KSH, NFSZ, KEKKH, etc.)
*   We made standard data collecting surveys with condition surveys in the blocks and flats taking all the inhabitants into account.
*   We made in-depth interviews with the employees and leaders of social, educational, health care, cultural, employment and public safety institutions.
*   We introduced the methodology of community planning to the leaders of social, charity and civil organizations.
*   We worked on-together with the inhabitants of the segregates- defining common breakthroughs, noted all the ideas for possible solutions for the existing problems with the tools of community planning. We took an active role in communication with the target group based on our experience with the people living in extreme poverty and the method of community planning. The will for cooperation increased on the individual and on the community level during the process.
*   We also organized workshops from time to time for the social, health care and educational institutions and the civil organizations operating in Paks to support the cooperation between them. Among the topics of the workshops were the introduction and discussion of the correct and functioning operation of the social rental apartments system, the acquisition of the methodology of community development, and finding the possibilities and planning the cooperation. All these institutions found a new way to cooperate with each other in order to define the problems and to work out a solution together. With the acquired knowledge they will be able to solve the future problems.
*   As a result of the above mentioned process, the Community Intervention Plan was born that involves the possible execution plan for an expanding, multi-staged, permeable and maintainable social rental home system; involves possible solutions for the improvement of the employment situation of the inhabitants of these homes, and it calls the attention to the necessity of community development and the coordinated action taking. This study laid down the ground for establishing a Social Real Estate Agency in Paks.

**Project duration: 15 April 2016 – 30 September 2016**

**9\. Special labour market services in coordination with the public employment programme in Komló – central labour market programme**

**Patron: Ministry of National Economy, Government Office of County Baranya**

**Project description:**

The project was launched by the City Guardianship of the Municipality of Komló, and the aim of it was to improve the employability of 25 applicants suffering from medical, social or psychological problems.

The aim of our services was to support the entry of the participants of a public employment programme to the primary, secondary labour market, or adult education.

The individual, for the labour market necessary, but missing key competences and abilities development and the labour market integration supporting group trainings helped a big part of the participants to reach the goal defined in the individual development plan. The target group of the programme were people, who prior to the special public employment programme had not been ready to be employed, for example disabled workers, long-run unemployed people, parents of minimum three small children, people without elementary school degree or families where there are minimum two registered job seekers.

The participants received mentorship during the programme, they made their own development plan, the implementation of which was supported by employment advisors. They also participated in a re-orientating, key-competences developing and job search technique training group seminars. The improvement of the participants was monitored by 3 labour market mentors and 2 employment advisors.

**Project duration: 01 May 2016- 30 September 2016**

**10\. Project: Cross-border co-operation for the development of social and solidarity economy through the elaboration and implementation of a joint adult education training programme**

**Acronym**: RE.M.I.S.E

**Total project budget**: 167.227, 86 EUR

**Lead Beneficiary**: University of Pécs

**Beneficiaries**: Human Innovation Group Non-profit Ltd.

                    Open University Koprivnica

**Project duration: 01 September 2017 – 31 December 2018**

The aim of the project to be implemented within the frames of Interreg V-A Hungary-Croatia Co-operation Programme is to identify the resources and potentials of the social economy sector in the cross-border region, then on the basis of the comprehensive situation analysis to jointly develop the curriculum of the ’Managing social enterprises’ training programme, to have it accredited and to implement the training. The experts participating in the project will attend trainings and workshops, while the social enterprises involved will receive organization development and coaching and they will participate in network development, professional fairs and study tours as well.
