---
title: Mapping out the necessary intervention plan for the Roma inhabitants of Paks
short_title:
lang: en
ref: project-8
img: /assets/img/projekt_8.jpg
archived: true
---

**Client: Paks Municipality**

**Project:**

*   Collection and synchronization of data about the inhabitants of social institutions and social rental homes from the partner organizations (e.g.: Government Office, schools, kindergartens, police, civil defence, child protection organizations, health care and other charity organizations; and the process of all available data at the public data banks (KSH, NFSZ, KEKKH, etc.)
*   We made standard data collecting surveys with condition surveys in the blocks and flats taking all the inhabitants into account.
*   We made in-depth interviews with the employees and leaders of social, educational, health care, cultural, employment and public safety institutions.
*   We introduced the methodology of community planning to the leaders of social, charity and civil organizations.
*   We worked on-together with the inhabitants of the segregates- defining common breakthroughs, noted all the ideas for possible solutions for the existing problems with the tools of community planning. We took an active role in communication with the target group based on our experience with the people living in extreme poverty and the method of community planning. The will for cooperation increased on the individual and on the community level during the process.
*   We also organized workshops from time to time for the social, health care and educational institutions and the civil organizations operating in Paks to support the cooperation between them. Among the topics of the workshops were the introduction and discussion of the correct and functioning operation of the social rental apartments system, the acquisition of the methodology of community development, and finding the possibilities and planning the cooperation. All these institutions found a new way to cooperate with each other in order to define the problems and to work out a solution together. With the acquired knowledge they will be able to solve the future problems.
*   As a result of the above mentioned process, the Community Intervention Plan was born that involves the possible execution plan for an expanding, multi-staged, permeable and maintainable social rental home system; involves possible solutions for the improvement of the employment situation of the inhabitants of these homes, and it calls the attention to the necessity of community development and the coordinated action taking. This study laid down the ground for establishing a Social Real Estate Agency in Paks.

**Project duration:** _15 April 2016 – 30 September 2016_
